Hello and welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to test our sprite She actually works as we intended it to.
This is very much a lean process.
We've made our Sprite sheet.
The next thing before we do anything else is just to make sure that it behaves exactly how we expect
it to.
So this lecture is all about testing your work straightaway rather than just building upon potential
problems.
If you just carried on producing work we'll be searching for a tool that we can you see you guys are
armed with the knowledge and the key words necessary.
The tools that we use in this particular lecture disappears from the web.
These things do happen.
And finally we will use it to test that our spreadsheet that we have made behaves as expected.
Okay so as you can see here we are over on Google and the keywords that I have used are Sprite sheet
animator.
And as you can see a list comes up.
So I have had a look at the top two here.
The first one is nice and basic So we will be using that one the next one down has a few more features
a few more bells and whistles.
So let's go ahead and click on the top one here.
So you end up going to open game art dork which is a great website.
Just to check it out yourselves.
And we have a you are l down at the bottom here which takes us to our sprite's sheet animator.
Now I will make sure that this particular link is also in the resources against this lecture.
You can also just go ahead and click on that.
Okay.
At this point we can go ahead and from our computer choose a file.
Let's go ahead and do that.
Now we can scroll down and I'm going to pick up my bouncy ball Sprite sheet that we made in the last
lecture.
Now as you can see it's not quite right at the moment it's flicking white and it doesn't look as it
should do.
So if we go down we can see we've got a sprite width and height.
Now if you record my particular image was 128 128 So I'm going to have to put that in.
Now there is no padding there's no space around the sprites themselves is exactly 128 128.
That's absolutely fine.
So we can leave all of the sheet padding at zero.
Now the frame count is currently set to four.
And if I recall there were 20 separate frames and the frame time this is in milliseconds.
By the looks of it so this is currently half a second.
If I lower it down to a hundred milliseconds one tenth of a second we get it at 10 frames per second
then we go we can see bouncing down that looks good so far I can increase the zoom level just so I can
see it a bit clearer and you go to see it as well.
So there we go.
Nice quick and easy way of testing your sprite's and making sure that they're working as you would expect
them to.
Okay and it's time for a challenge I'd like you to go ahead and test your Sprite sheets and after you've
done that if you do come across any other utilities that you think that everybody else will enjoy yousee
and perhaps it's something just simple something that will help the workflow.
So you can be more and more productive.
Remember do share with the community.
It would be great to hear about them.
And after you've done this I will see you guys in the next lecture.